Glossary
========

* **business interruption** - Any event that disrupts Contractor’s
ability to complete the Work for a period of time, and may include,
but is not limited to a Disaster, power outage, strike, loss of
necessary personnel or computer virus.

* **closeout period** - The period beginning on the earlier of 90 days
prior to the end of the last Extension Term or notice by the State of
its decision to not exercise its option for an Extension Term, and
ending on the day that the Department has accepted the final
deliverable for the Closeout Period, as determined in the
Department-approved and updated Closeout Plan, and has determined that
the closeout is complete.

* **deliverable** - Any tangible or intangible object produced by
Contractor as a result of the work that is intended to be delivered to
the State, regardless of whether the object is specifically described
or called out as a “Deliverable” or not.

* **disaster** - An event that makes it impossible for Contractor to
perform the Work out of its regular facility or facilities, and may
include, but is not limited to, natural disasters, fire or terrorist
attacks.

* **key personnel** - The position or positions that are specifically
designated as such in this Contract.

* **operational start date** - When the State authorizes Contractor to
begin fulfilling its obligations under the Contract.

* **other personnel** - Individuals and Subcontractors, in addition to Key
Personnel, assigned to positions to complete tasks associated with the
Work.

* **start-up period** - The period starting on the Effective Date and
ending on the Operational Start Date.

* **ballot contest** - A partisan or nonpartisan candidate race, or a
ballot measure, that appears on the ballot for an election in a
county.

* **ballot manifest** - A document that describes how ballots are
organized and stored, and relates a CVR (defined below) to the
physical location in which the original marked ballot is stored. The
ballot manifest should show, in human-readable format, the physical
location of a ballot to allow a county worker to efficiently find the
specific ballot represented by a given CVR. A ballot manifest will
contain the following information: county ID, tabulator ID, batch ID,
(Shown in Appendix 2.) number of ballots in each batch, and the
storage location where the batch is secured following tabulation. A
sample ballot manifest is attached as Appendix 2.

* **cast vote records (CVR)** - Electronic records created during
scanning of paper ballots indicating how the voting system interpreted
physical marks on every ballot. A sample CVR is attached as Appendix
1.

* **contests** - A contest in this context is each item up for
decision on a ballot. Ex: Jane Doe for Colorado Secretary of State.

* **coordinated election** - Coordinated Elections occur on the first
Tuesday of November in odd-numbered years.  If the Secretary of State
certifies at least one statewide ballot measure to the counties, every
county will conduct the Coordinated Election, and the vast majority of
counties will include additional local ballot content in the election.
If the Secretary of State does not certify at least one statewide
ballot measure to the counties, then only those counties to which
local political subdivisions certify ballot content will conduct a
Coordinated Election in that year.

* **county administrator** - The designated representative(s) of each
county clerk and recorder who possesses RLA administrative user
privileges sufficient to upload a cast vote record and ballot manifest
for the county.

* **contest name** - The title of a ballot contest.

* **election day** - The day mandated by Colorado law for conducting a
State Primary Election, Presidential Primary Election, Coordinated
Election, and General Election.

* **offeror** - A vendor that submits a responsible bid for this
Documented Quote.

* **pseudo-random number generator** - A random number generator
application that is further explained at
http://statistics.berkeley.edu/~stark/Java/Html/sha256Rand.htm

* **random seed** - A random seed (or seed state, or just seed) is a
number (or vector) used to initialize a pseudorandom number generator.

* **responsible bid** - A bid from a vendor that can responsibly
(i.e. is reasonably able and qualified) do the work stated in the
solicitation.

* **risk-limiting audit (RLA)** - An audit that provides strong statistical
evidence that the election outcome is right, and has a high
probability of correcting a wrong outcome. One paper describing
risk-limiting audits is located at
https://www.stat.berkeley.edu/~stark/Preprints/gentle12.pdf.

* **state administrator** - The designated representative(s) of the
Colorado Department of State, who possesses RLA administrative user
privileges to perform administrative tasks.

* **tabulated ballots** - Paper ballots that have been scanned on a
ballot scanning device, and the voter’s markings on which have been
interpreted by the voting system’s software as valid votes,
undervotes, or overvotes.

* **two-factor authentication** - Defined as two out of the three
following requirements:
  * Something you have (Examples: token code, grid card) 
  * Something you know (Example: passwords)
  * Something you are (Example: biometrics)

* **wrong outcome** – When the reported outcome does not match the
actual outcome. This can happen due to various reasons like
adjudication or equipment errors.

* **ballot** TBD

* **margin** TBD

