Project Management
==================

The time-to-delivery of this project is extremely short, so it is
critical that we take an efficient, economical approach to building
the proposed RLA software tool. We view the RLA tool specified in this
DQ as a reimplementation and extension of our existing, open source
RLA product demonstrator, OpenRLA. The Free & Fair team has extensive
pre-existing RLA software development experience and deep domain
knowledge. This experience, together with a grounding in lightweight
formal methods for high-assurance software engineering, will enable us
to build a secure, user-friendly RLA application within the limited
timeline.

Project Management Practices
============================

In this section we review Free & Fair’s project management practices,
which we have used to deliver millions of dollars worth of high
assurance systems on time and under budget. Our core project
management principles focus on Customer Caretaking, Social Contracts,
Continuous Improvement, Artifacts and Evidence, and Transparency.

### Customer Caretaking

For all projects we have a dedicated Free & Fair team member whose
role is to represent the interests of the client to others at Free &
Fair. They are actively engaged with the client and have a role in all
project management decisions. They build a deep trust relationship
with the client’s key performers. This position is a reflection of the
trust relationship between us and our clients.

### Social Contracts

Our systems engineering artifacts capture technical interdependencies
between project team members, but the glue that holds the team
together and makes the team work well is our collective social
contracts. Our performers explicitly discuss and acknowledge
client-supplier relationships between team members and always perform
to exceed not only the expectations of our external client (in this
case, the Colorado Department of State), but also each internal client
(another team member).

### Continuous Improvement 

Social contracts are renegotiated frequently and fluidly and are
directly reflected upon immediately upon completion. For example, at
the end of a thirty minute stand-up meeting discussing a milestone
that we just reached and what comes next, we often have a five minute
discussion about what worked well and where improvements can be made
with regards to that particular piece of work. In particular, we focus
on its embedded social contracts. The individuals in our organization
always attempt to maximize efficiency, impact, and joy at work.

### Artifacts and Evidence 

We focus on artifacts and evidence in a project or product. "Meta"
aspects like processes and checklists serve meaningful outcomes. This
focus on the meaningful is pervasive. Principles trump rules.  For
example, provable security is mandatory; "security theater" is
prohibited.

### Transparency

Finally, whether it is with regard to our technology, business
practices, or project management approach, transparency is the core
principle by which we operate. Telling each other, and the client,
when something is working well or working poorly, early and honestly,
is common. If necessary, we will tell a client that a technical
direction they are excited about is inappropriate and provide
objective evidence to justify that conclusion. We always keep the
client informed, whether we are ahead of the game or behind the eight
ball. In all aspects, and for all projects, we believe that
transparency is the keystone of our operation. Without it, our
election systems cannot be trustworthy and will not be successful.

Project Management Structure and Responsibilities
=================================================

Dr. J. Kiniry holds final responsibility for the success of this
project.  Dr. Zimmerman and Dr. Dodds, working with Dr. J. Kiniry,
will write the system specification, design and verify the
client/server communication protocol and the server/server
synchronization protocol, and implement the server-side and
communication subsystems, including the audit computation subsystem
and the datastore subsystem. Ms. Miller will work with Mr. Ranweiler
and Mr. McBurnett on the UX of the system and will mock up
UIs. Mr. Ranweiler is responsible for designing and implementing the
client side of the system against the system specification and the
UI/UX design. Mr. McBurnett will provide domain expertise in Colorado
elections and ballot-level comparison risk-limiting audits, will red
team system architecture, design, and implementation, and will perform
Q/A on the tool, and will help write documentation. He will also
coordinate with the EVN CORLA2 team to get statistical algorithm
input, advice, and feedback, and will be on call during deployment for
the trial runs of the tool during Logic and Accuracy testing and after
the election until the audits are done. Mr. M. Kiniry will write the
user guide for the system and will revise the developer’s
documentation. Dr. Singer will be the customer caretaker and project
lead.
