Project Members
===============

**Dr. Joseph Kiniry** is Chief Scientist and CEO of Free & Fair. Prior
to working for Free & Fair, Dr. Kiniry provided commercial and public
consultancy services to several governments on matters relating to
elections, their technology, security, processes, and
verifiability. He has worked on election systems for fifteen years;
has audited the security, correctness, and reliability of numerous
physical and Internet-based voting systems; and has developed
high-assurance prototypes and products of several election
technologies (including, but not limited to, tallying, auditing,
voting, ballot marking, and e-poll book (EPB) systems).

Dr. Kiniry has formally advised four national governments (the USA,
The Netherlands, the Republic of Ireland, and Denmark) on matters
relating to digital elections and has testified before two
parliaments. He has also provided informal input and advice to the
governments of Norway, Estonia, and the United States. He co-founded
and co-ran a multi-year research project on digital elections (the
DemTech project) and has supervised numerous B.S., M.S., and
Ph.D. theses focusing on election technologies. His research group
developed several high-assurance peer-reviewed election software
systems, including a tally system used in binding European elections
for The Netherlands in 2004 and an EPB system used in Danish national
elections in 2012. Dr. Kiniry has served as a Principal Investigator
on research projects for the European Union Council, various
Department of Defense branches, the National Science Foundation, and
several national funding agencies in Ireland, The Netherlands, and
Denmark. He has also started and run a half dozen technology firms and
has held tenured positions at four university in three countries. He
holds five advanced degrees, including a Ph.D. from the California
Institute of Technology.

**Joe Ranweiler** is a software engineering consultant for Free &
Fair. He has over 5 years of professional experience building
software, spanning research and development, data engineering, and
commercially-deployed web applications. Joe helped write Free & Fair’s
end-to-end verifiable voting system demonstrator, including its core
cryptographic components. He is a regular open-source software
contributor and was recently the technical lead on Free & Fair’s
OpenRLA risk-limiting audit system prototype, which was built using
modern web application technologies. Joe has a B.S. in Mathematics
from Arizona State University.

**Neal McBurnett** has been developing open source software related to
election audits for over a decade, and worked as a software developer
for tools and the Internet as a Distinguished Member of Technical
Staff at Bell Labs for two decades before that. He consulted with the
Colorado Secretary of State on the Colorado Risk-Limiting Audit
project, and is a member of the team that worked with County Clerk
Dana DeBeauvoir in Travis County, TX on the design and RFP for
STAR-Vote, a novel voting system supporting end-to-end and
risk-limiting audits. He served as vice-chair of the IEEE P1622
standards committee on a common data format for elections, and
continues to participate in the U.S. Election Assistance Commission’s
VVSG-Interoperability Working Group, developing standards for Cast
Vote Records and related formats. Using his open source web-based
ElectionAudits software, Boulder County, CO performed
nationally-recognized audits in 2008 and 2010. He also audited the
groundbreaking open source Scantegrity end-to-end election in Takoma
Park, MD in 2011. Mr. McBurnett was a major contributor to "Principles
and Best Practices for Post-Election Audits" (September 2008) and the
2010 American Statistical Association statement on Risk-Limiting Small
Batch Audits. He has participated actively in election processes since
2002 as an observer, election official, auditor and public witness. He
is an active participant in the Election Verification Network. He
holds an M.S. in Computer Science from the University of California at
Berkeley, and a B.S. in Computer Science from Brown University.

**Dr. Daniel Zimmerman**, the Technology Lead at Free & Fair, has
extensive experience in formal methods, high-assurance software
engineering, concurrent and distributed systems, and foundations of
computer science. He taught computer science at multiple universities
for over a decade. In industry, he has worked primarily in the areas
of rigorous software engineering and verifiable election
technology. He holds three advanced degrees, including a Ph.D., all
from the California Institute of Technology.

**Dr. Joey Dodds** has focused mainly on research and development
facilitating correctness proofs for a variety of programs, including
cryptographic algorithms. At Free & Fair, Dodds has implemented both a
tabulator and a risk-limiting audit system and written formal
specifications for both. He also fully proved the correctness of the
tabulator. He is a key participant in the verification of Amazon’s s2n
library, responsible for both the verification of the library and
implementing a system to automatically report metrics about the
progress of the project to Amazon’s upper management. He holds a
Ph.D. from Princeton University and holds two other advanced degrees.

**Dr. Stephanie Singer** has developed web-based applications querying
relational databases to make customized reports of election results
available to the general public. As a member of the Philadelphia
County Board of Elections in Pennsylvania, she oversaw the creation
and deployment of a modern voter-facing election website. She also
held a tenured position in mathematics at Haverford College for over a
decade and earned several degrees, including a Ph.D. in mathematics
from NYU.

**Mike Kiniry** is a communication expert, with backgrounds in radio,
print, and photojournalism, who specializes in clearly communicating
complicated concepts. He spent nearly a decade as a public radio
reporter, producer, and host and has been a freelance writer and
photographer for the past 15 years. Mike is also a videographer and
editor, and is the Election Verification Network’s dedicated
videographer/media producer.

**Morgan Miller** is an experienced User Experience (UX) professional
with a deep background in scientific research. She is currently a User
Experience Architect for Morgan Miller UX, LLC, where she leads teams
through a UX discovery, architecture, and research process; designs
and executes research studies; synthesizes research data to create
actionable recommendations; and builds information architecture
including taxonomy, sitemaps, and wireframes. She has done work for
Overseas Vote Foundation, Intel, Mozilla Foundation, BMC Software,
Esri, World Wildlife Fund, Nike, Moda, Providence Health, and Cambia
Health. She earned a B.A. in Mathematics from Reed College and an
M.S. in Computer Science from the University of Lugano, Switzerland,
where she was a cryptography researcher.

